Welcome to the fourth video
in the behavior planning module.
In the last video, we introduced
dynamic objects into
our finite state machine
behavior planner.
In this video, we will develop
a larger behavior planner
which is able to
manage the decision process
for multiple scenarios
simultaneously.
We will do this by introducing
the notion of a hierarchical
finite state machine.
We will also develop a method
to switch between each of
the driving scenarios as
they occur. Let's begin.
So far in this module,
we have developed a finite state
machine behavior planner
that can handle
a single four-way stop
intersection scenario
with dynamic objects.
However, in driving, there are
many such scenarios which
will be encountered.
For example, there are
three-way stop intersections,
traffic light controlled
intersections,
and straight road scenarios,
just to name a few.
While many of these
scenarios share
some similarities largely due
to the logic required
to handle them,
each of the scenarios
can be considered to
require fundamentally
different driving behaviors.
One method of handling
these multiple scenarios is
by adding additional states,
transitions and conditions to
a single state machine in
an ever-expanding network
of behaviors.
However, there are several
problems with this approach.
The first problem is that
we would need to develop
additional logic to differentiate
the current scenario,
as well as the rules needed to
handle each scenario
individually.
This quickly runs into a problem
known as rule explosion,
in which the number of
rules required to add
additional scenarios
becomes unimaginably large.
The second problem with
a single state machine is
that due to the number of
extra rules and
transitions that need to
be evaluated at each step,
the computational time required
significantly
increases, and lastly,
such a system is
complicated to create and
maintain as a number of cases
which one must worry
about increases quickly.
Essentially, as the
complexity increases,
we lose all the
advantages of using
a finite state machine that
were highlighted
back in lesson one.
There is however, another
approach we can use.
We can represent
each high level scenario
as a single state.
This would allow us to create
much simpler transitions in
between the high level
scenario states.
In this example, we can see
that the states represent
a straight road scenario and
the four-way
intersection scenario
we worked with previously.
With each one of these high
level scenario states,
we will store
a low-level state machine
with which we can handle
the scenario independently.
For example, for
the intersection scenario,
the low-level state machine
will be the one
constructed over
the last two lessons.
This method of representation is
known as a hierarchical
state machine,
with the super-states
representing each scenario,
and the sub-states representing
the maneuvers to be
handled in each scenario.
The transitions between
the high level
scenario state machine
would be a rule that defines
when a new scenario
has been entered,
based on the HD roadmap and
dynamic vehicle information.
Let's say we have this simple
hierarchical state machine
with two scenarios,
one for straight road with
a pedestrian crossing,
and another for a stop
sign-based intersection.
To move from the straight road
to the stop sign intersection,
the autonomous vehicle has to be
close to an encounter
with this intersection.
This is done with
a distance check to
the next intersection
along the mission plan.
All the movements
which we have talked
about here is at
the super-state level.
The next question we
have to answer is,
how do we switch
between scenarios
when processing
the sub-state maneuvers?
One method is to
introduce transitions to
key maneuver sub-states out
of the current scenario
super-state.
Let us continue to use
the intersection
scenario as an example.
First, let's
establish which state
will be the key exit state
out of the scenario.
The only way we're able to exit
an intersection is while in
the track speed or follow
leader states after having
passed the intersection.
So let's put the exit
transitions there.
The condition on
the transitions would be to
confirm that this scenario
has indeed been completed.
In this example, we can use
the distance to the next
stop sign intersection.
If this is larger than
a given threshold,
we can exit the
intersection scenario.
With this method of transition,
we were able to also maintain
maneuvers between
scenario switches.
In this case, track speed
in the intersection
super-state will connect to
the track speed of
the next scenario that we enter.
Adding an additional
multi-lane scenario to
this hierarchical state
machine is done by
creating a new super-state
scenario node,
with a sub-state state machine
capable of handling
that scenario.
This type of
finite state machine has
some inherent strengths
and weaknesses.
The strengths of
this approach are
due to it's subdivided nature.
By creating individual
state machines
within each super-state,
this method is able to limit
the computational time
required at
any one time step by
restructuring our sub-space.
This subdivided nature also
makes both testing and
programming of
a hierarchical state machine
significantly easier.
However, the hierarchical
state machine
is not without its problems,
while limiting the number
of rules required,
this approach is still unable to
handle rule explosion completely.
One reason for the large number
of rules is that
all scenarios have fully
separated state machines,
and thus many of the rules are
duplicates of one another in
order to handle similar behaviors
in different scenarios.
Ultimately, the
hierarchical approach
allows the system
designer to handle
a greater amount
of complexity than
a flat single layered
finite state machine.
The idea can be extended
to multiple layers as
long as key states can be
defined at each level.
In reality, the perspective
enforced by
finite state machines,
that a single behavior is
active at any given time,
and that all transitions to
other behaviors can be
explicitly defined,
has a limit on how large a set
of scenarios it can handle.
Nonetheless, it
provides a useful tool
for typical behavior planning
in a self-driving car.
Let's summarize what we've
discussed in this video.
We first introduced
the hierarchical
finite state machine,
which is able to handle
multiple scenarios
simultaneously.
We also discussed how
to transition between
the different driving scenarios
at the super and
sub-state levels,
and we discussed
the capabilities and limits of
behavior planning with
hierarchical finite
state machines.
Join us in our next video
where we will discuss
a range of advanced
research approaches that
are able to solve some of
the issues we've faced so
far with behavior planning.
See you there.